.TH DCB-APPTRUST 8 "22 November 2022" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
dcb-apptrust \- show / configure per-selector trust and trust order of the
application priority table of the DCB (Data Center Bridging) subsystem.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8

.ti -8
.B dcb
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] "
.B apptrust
.RI "{ " COMMAND " | " help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.B dcb apptrust show dev
.RI DEV
.RB "[ " order " ]"

.ti -8
.B dcb apptrust set dev
.RI DEV
.RB "[ " order "
.IR "SEL-LIST" " ]"

.ti -8
.IR SEL-LIST " := [ " SEL-LIST " ] " SEL

.ti -8
.IR SEL " := { " ethtype " | " stream-port " | " dgram-port " | " port " | " dscp " | " pcp " } "

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B dcb apptrust
is used to configure per-selector trust and trust order of the
Application Priority Table, see
.BR dcb-app (8)
for details on how to configure app table entries.

Selector trust can be used by the
software stack, or drivers (most likely the latter), when querying the APP
table, to determine if an APP entry should take effect, or not. Additionally, the
order of the trusted selectors will dictate which selector should take
precedence, in the case of multiple different APP table selectors being present.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B show
Display all trusted selectors.

.TP
.B set
Set new list of trusted selectors. Empty list is effectively the same as
removing trust entirely.

.SH PARAMETERS

The following describes only the write direction, i.e. as used with the
\fBset\fR command. For the \fBshow\fR command, the parameter name is to be used
as a simple keyword without further arguments. This instructs the tool to show
the values of a given parameter.

.TP
.B order \fISEL-LIST
\fISEL-LIST\fR is a space-separated list of selector names. Possible selector
values are:
.B ethtype,
.B stream-port,
.B dgram-port,
.B port,
.B dscp,
and
.B pcp


.SH EXAMPLE & USAGE

Set trust order to: dscp, pcp for eth0:
.P
# dcb apptrust set dev eth0 order dscp pcp

Set trust order to: port (stream or dgram), pcp, ethtype for eth1:
.P
# dcb apptrust set dev eth1 order port pcp ethtype

Show what was set:

.P
# dcb apptrust show dev eth0
.br
order: port pcp ethtype

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if command was successful or a positive integer upon failure.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcb (8),
.BR dcb-app (8)

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report any bugs to the Network Developers mailing list
.B <netdev@vger.kernel.org>
where the development and maintenance is primarily done.
You do not have to be subscribed to the list to send a message there.

.SH AUTHOR
Daniel Machon <daniel.machon@microchip.com>
