.TH DEVLINK\-TRAP 8 "2 August 2019" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-trap \- devlink trap configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B trap
.RI "{ " COMMAND " |"
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-v\fR[\fIerbose\fR] |
\fB\-s\fR[\fItatistics\fR] }

.ti -8
.B "devlink trap show"
.RI "[ " DEV
.B trap
.IR TRAP " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink trap set " DEV " trap " TRAP
.RB "[ " action " { " trap " | " drop " } ]"

.ti -8
.B "devlink trap group show"
.RI "[ " DEV
.B group
.IR GROUP " ]"

.ti -8
.BI "devlink trap group set " DEV " group " GROUP
.RB "[ " action " { " trap " | " drop " } ]"

.ti -8
.B devlink trap help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink trap show - display available packet traps and their attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device from which to show packet traps.
If this argument is omitted all packet traps of all devices are listed.

.PP
.BI "trap " TRAP
- specifies the packet trap.
Only applicable if a devlink device is also specified.

.SS devlink trap set - set attributes of a packet trap

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device the packet trap belongs to.

.PP
.BI "trap " TRAP
- specifies the packet trap.

.TP
.BR action " { " trap " | " drop " } "
packet trap action.

.I trap
- the sole copy of the packet is sent to the CPU.

.I drop
- the packet is dropped by the underlying device and a copy is not sent to the CPU.

.SS devlink trap group show - display available packet trap groups and their attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device from which to show packet trap groups.
If this argument is omitted all packet trap groups of all devices are listed.

.PP
.BI "group " GROUP
- specifies the packet trap group.
Only applicable if a devlink device is also specified.

.SS devlink trap group set - set attributes of a packet trap group

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device the packet trap group belongs to.

.PP
.BI "group " GROUP
- specifies the packet trap group.

.TP
.BR action " { " trap " | " drop " } "
packet trap action. The action is set for all the packet traps member in the
trap group. The actions of non-drop traps cannot be changed and are thus
skipped.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink trap show
.RS 4
List available packet traps.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap group show
.RS 4
List available packet trap groups.
.RE
.PP
devlink -vs trap show pci/0000:01:00.0 trap source_mac_is_multicast
.RS 4
Show attributes and statistics of a specific packet trap.
.RE
.PP
devlink -s trap group show pci/0000:01:00.0 group l2_drops
.RS 4
Show attributes and statistics of a specific packet trap group.
.RE
.PP
devlink trap set pci/0000:01:00.0 trap source_mac_is_multicast action trap
.RS 4
Set the action of a specific packet trap to 'trap'.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Ido Schimmel <idosch@mellanox.com>
