.TH DEVLINK\-RESOURCE 8 "11 Feb 2018" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-resource \- devlink device resource configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B resource
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-v\fR[\fIerbose\fR] }

.ti -8
.B devlink resource show
.RI "[ " DEV "[/" PORT_INDEX "] | " scope " { " dev " | " port " } ]"

.ti -8
.B devlink resource help

.ti -8
.BR "devlink resource set"
.IR DEV
.BI path " RESOURCE_PATH"
.BI size " RESOURCE_SIZE"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink resource show - display devlink device resources

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device to show.
If omitted, all devices are listed.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
BUS_NAME/BUS_ADDRESS

.PP
.I "PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the port to show resources for.
When given, only port-level resources for that port are shown.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
BUS_NAME/BUS_ADDRESS/PORT_INDEX

.TP
.BI scope " { dev | port }"
Filter resources by scope.
.B dev
shows only device-level resources.
.B port
shows only port-level resources.
When omitted, resources of both scopes are shown.

.SS devlink resource set - sets resource size of specific resource

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device.

.TP
.BI path " RESOURCE_PATH"
Resource's path.

.TP
.BI size " RESOURCE_SIZE"
The new resource's size.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink resource show
.RS 4
Shows resources for all devlink devices.
.RE
.PP
devlink resource show pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Shows the resources of the specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink resource show pci/0000:01:00.0/1
.RS 4
Shows port-level resources for port 1 of the specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink resource set pci/0000:01:00.0 path /kvd/linear size 98304
.RS 4
Sets the size of the specified resource for the specified devlink device.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-port (8),
.BR devlink-sb (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Arkadi Sharshevsky <arkadis@mellanox.com>
