.TH DEVLINK\-PORT 8 "14 Mar 2016" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-port \- devlink port configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B port
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-n\fR[\fIno-nice-names\fR] }

.ti -8
.BR "devlink port set "
.IR DEV/PORT_INDEX
.RI "[ "
.BR type " { " eth " | " ib " | " auto " }"
.RI "]"

.ti -8
.BR "devlink port split "
.IR DEV/PORT_INDEX
.BR count
.IR COUNT

.ti -8
.BR "devlink port unsplit "
.IR DEV/PORT_INDEX

.ti -8
.B devlink port show
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"

.ti -8
.B devlink port help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink port set - change devlink port attributes

.PP
.B "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the devlink port to operate on.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
BUS_NAME/BUS_ADDRESS/PORT_INDEX

.TP
.BR type " { " eth " | " ib " | " auto " } "
set port type

.I eth
- Ethernet

.I ib
- Infiniband

.I auto
- autoselect

.SS devlink port split - split devlink port into more

.PP
.B "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the devlink port to operate on.

.TP
.BI count " COUNT"
number of ports to split to.

.SS devlink port unsplit - unsplit previously split devlink port
Could be performed on any split port of the same split group.

.PP
.B "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the devlink port to operate on.

.SS devlink port show - display devlink port attributes

.PP
.I "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the devlink port to show.
If this argument is omitted all ports are listed.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink port show
.RS 4
Shows the state of all devlink ports on the system.
.RE
.PP
devlink port show pci/0000:01:00.0/1
.RS 4
Shows the state of specified devlink port.
.RE
.PP
devlink port set pci/0000:01:00.0/1 type eth
.RS 4
Set type of specified devlink port to Ethernet.
.RE
.PP
devlink port split pci/0000:01:00.0/1 count 4
.RS 4
Split the specified devlink port into four ports.
.RE
.PP
devlink port unsplit pci/0000:01:00.0/1
.RS 4
Unplit the specified previously split devlink port.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-sb (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
