.TH DEVLINK\-DEV 8 "14 Mar 2016" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-dev \- devlink device configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B dev
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-n\fR[\fIno-nice-names\fR] }

.ti -8
.B devlink dev show
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B devlink dev help

.ti -8
.BR "devlink dev eswitch set"
.IR DEV
.RI "[ "
.BR mode " { " legacy " | " switchdev " } "
.RI "]"
.RI "[ "
.BR inline-mode " { " none " | " link " | " network " | " transport " } "
.RI "]"
.RI "[ "
.BR encap " { " disable " | " enable " } "
.RI "]"

.ti -8
.BR "devlink dev eswitch show"
.IR DEV

.ti -8
.BR "devlink dev param set"
.IR DEV
.BR name
.IR PARAMETER
.BR value
.IR VALUE
.BR cmode " { " runtime " | " driverinit " | " permanent " } "

.ti -8
.BR "devlink dev param show"
.RI "[ "
.IR DEV
.BR name
.IR PARAMETER
.RI "]"

.ti -8
.BR "devlink dev reload"
.IR DEV

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink dev show - display devlink device attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the devlink device to show.
If this argument is omitted all devices are listed.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
BUS_NAME/BUS_ADDRESS

.SS devlink dev eswitch show - display devlink device eswitch attributes
.SS devlink dev eswitch set  - sets devlink device eswitch attributes

.TP
.BR mode " { " legacy " | " switchdev " } "
Set eswitch mode

.I legacy
- Legacy SRIOV

.I switchdev
- SRIOV switchdev offloads

.TP
.BR inline-mode " { " none " | " link " | " network " | " transport " } "
Some HWs need the VF driver to put part of the packet headers on the TX descriptor so the e-switch can do proper matching and steering.

.I none
- None

.I link
- L2 mode

.I network
- L3 mode

.I transport
- L4 mode

.TP
.BR encap " { " disable " | " enable " } "
Set eswitch encapsulation support

.I disable
- Disable encapsulation support

.I enable
- Enable encapsulation support

.SS devlink dev param set  - set new value to devlink device configuration parameter

.TP
.BI name " PARAMETER"
Specify parameter name to set.

.TP
.BI value " VALUE"
New value to set.

.TP
.BR cmode " { " runtime " | " driverinit " | " permanent " } "
Configuration mode in which the new value is set.

.I runtime
- Set new value while driver is running. This configuration mode doesn't require any reset to apply the new value.

.I driverinit
- Set new value which will be applied during driver initialization. This configuration mode requires restart driver by devlink reload command to apply the new value.

.I permanent
- New value is written to device's non-volatile memory. This configuration mode requires hard reset to apply the new value.

.SS devlink dev param show - display devlink device supported configuration parameters attributes

.BR name
.IR PARAMETER
Specify parameter name to show.
If this argument is omitted all parameters supported by devlink devices are listed.

.SS devlink dev reload - perform hot reload of the driver.

.PP
.I "DEV"
- Specifies the devlink device to reload.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink dev show
.RS 4
Shows the state of all devlink devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev show pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Shows the state of specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev eswitch show pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Shows the eswitch mode of specified devlink device.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev eswitch set pci/0000:01:00.0 mode switchdev
.RS 4
Sets the eswitch mode of specified devlink device to switchdev.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev param show pci/0000:01:00.0 name max_macs
.RS 4
Shows the parameter max_macs attributes.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev param set pci/0000:01:00.0 name internal_error_reset value true cmode runtime
.RS 4
Sets the parameter internal_error_reset of specified devlink device to true.
.RE
.PP
devlink dev reload pci/0000:01:00.0
.RS 4
Performs hot reload of specified devlink device.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-port (8),
.BR devlink-sb (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
