.TH DEVLINK\-LC 8 "20 Apr 2022" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
devlink-lc \- devlink line card configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B devlink
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B lc
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] }

.ti -8
.B "devlink lc set"
.IB DEV " lc " LC_INDEX
.RB [ " type " {
.IR LC_TYPE " | "
.BR notype " } ] "

.ti -8
.B "devlink lc show"
.RI "[ " DEV " [ "
.BI lc " LC_INDEX
] ]

.ti -8
.B devlink lc help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS devlink lc set - change line card attributes

.PP
.TP
.I "DEV"
Specifies the devlink device to operate on.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
BUS_NAME/BUS_ADDRESS

.TP
.BI lc " LC_INDEX "
Specifies index of a line card slot to set.

.TP
.BR type " { "
.IR LC_TYPE " | "
.BR notype " } "
Type of line card to provision. Each driver provides a list of supported line card types which is shown in the output of
.BR "devlink lc show " command.

.SS devlink lc show - display line card attributes

.PP
.TP
.I "DEV"
.RB "Specifies the devlink device to operate on. If this and " lc " arguments are omitted all line cards of all devices are listed.

.TP
.BI lc " LC_INDEX "
Specifies index of a line card slot to show.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
devlink lc show
.RS 4
Shows the state of all line cards on the system.
.RE
.PP
devlink lc show pci/0000:01:00.0 lc 1
.RS 4
Shows the state of line card with index 1.
.RE
.PP
devlink lc set pci/0000:01:00.0 lc 1 type 16x100G
.RS 4
.RI "Sets type of specified line card to type " 16x100G "."
.RE
.PP
devlink lc set pci/0000:01:00.0 lc 1 notype
.RS 4
Clears provisioning on a line card.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR devlink (8),
.BR devlink-dev (8),
.BR devlink-port (8),
.BR devlink-monitor (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Jiri Pirko <jiri@nvidia.com>
