.TH RDMA\-DEV 8 "06 Jul 2017" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma-dev \- RDMA device configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ]"
.B dev
.RI  " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] }

.ti -8
.B rdma dev show
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR name
.BR NEWNAME

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR netns
.BR NSNAME

.ti -8
.B rdma dev set
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"
.BR adaptive-moderation
.BR [on/off]

.ti -8
.B rdma dev add
.RI "[ " NAME " ]"
.B type
.RI "[ " TYPE " ]"
.B parent
.RI "[ " PARENT_DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma dev delete
.RI "[ " NAME " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma dev help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS rdma dev set - rename RDMA device or set network namespace or set RDMA device adaptive-moderation

.SS rdma dev show - display RDMA device attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the RDMA device to show.
If this argument is omitted all devices are listed.

.SS rdma dev add - Add a RDMA device with a specific type and parent IB device; This new device provides subset of functionalities defined in IBTA spec.
.SS rdma dev delete - Delete a RDMA device which is created with the "add" command.
.I NAME
- The name of the device being added/deleted.

.I TYPE
- The type of the device being added; It specifies which functionalities it provides. Supported device type:
.sp
.in +8
.B SMI
- A device with this type provides SMI (QP0) interface. This device and it's parent associates with the same HCA port and shares the physical link, so when the parent doesn't support SMI, then this type of device can be created to allow the subnet manager to configure the link.
.in -8

.I PARENT_DEV
- The name of its parent IB device.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
rdma dev
.RS 4
Shows the state of all RDMA devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev show mlx5_3
.RS 4
Shows the state of specified RDMA device.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 name rdma_0
.RS 4
Renames the mlx5_3 device to rdma_0.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 netns foo
.RS 4
Changes the network namespace of RDMA device to foo where foo is
previously created using iproute2 ip command.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev set mlx5_3 adaptive-moderation [on/off]
.RS 4
Sets the state of adaptive interrupt moderation for the RDMA device.
.RE
.RS 4
This is a global setting for the RDMA device but the value is printed for each CQ individually because the state is constant from CQ allocation.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev add smi1 type SMI parent ibp8s0f1
.RS 4
Add a new IB device with name "smi1", type "SMI", and "ibp8s0f1" as its parent device.
.RE
.PP
rdma dev delete smi1
.RS 4
Delete the IB device "smi1".
.RE
.PP

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ip (8),
.BR rdma (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-resource (8),
.BR rdma-system (8),
.BR rdma-statistic (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Leon Romanovsky <leonro@mellanox.com>
.br
Mark Zhang <markzhang@nvidia.com>
