.TH RDMA\-RESOURCE 8 "26 Dec 2017" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
rdma-resource \- rdma resource configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B rdma
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] " RESOURCE " { " COMMAND " | "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR RESOURCE " := { "
.BR cm_id " | " cq " | " mr " | " pd " | " qp " | " ctx " | " srq " | "
.BR frmr_pools " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-j\fR[\fIson\fR] |
\fB\-d\fR[\fIetails\fR] }

.ti -8
.B rdma resource show
.RI "[ " DEV/PORT_INDEX " ]"

.ti -8
.B rdma resource set frmr_pools
.BR dev
.IR DEV
.BR aging
.IR AGING_PERIOD

.ti -8
.B rdma resource set frmr_pools
.BR dev
.IR DEV
.BR pinned
.IR POOL_KEY
.IR PINNED_VALUE

.ti -8
.B rdma resource help

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS rdma resource show - display rdma resource tracking information

.PP
.I "DEV/PORT_INDEX"
- specifies the RDMA link to show.
If this argument is omitted all links are listed.

.SS rdma resource set - configure resource related parameters

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the RDMA device to configure.

.PP
.I "AGING_PERIOD"
- specifies the aging period in seconds for unused FRMR handles. Handles unused for this period will be freed.

.PP
.I "POOL_KEY"
- specifies the pool key that identifies a specific FRMR pool. The key is a colon-separated list of hexadecimal fields in the format vendor_key:num_dma_blocks:access_flags:ats.

.PP
.I "PINNED_VALUE"
- specifies the pinned value for the FRMR pool. A non-zero value pins handles to the pool, preventing them from being freed by the aging mechanism.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
rdma resource show
.RS 4
Shows summary for all devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show mlx5_2
.RS 4
Shows the state of the specified rdma device.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4
.RS 4
Get all QPs for the specific device.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1
.RS 4
Get QPs of specific port.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/0
.RS 4
Provide illegal port number (0 is illegal).
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/-
.RS 4
Get QPs which have not assigned port yet.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/- -d
.RS 4
Detailed view.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/- -dd
.RS 4
Detailed view including driver-specific details.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1 lqpn 0-6
.RS 4
Limit to specific Local QPNs.
.RE
.PP
rdma res show qp link mlx5_4/1 lqpn 6 -r
.RS 4
Driver specific details in raw format.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cm_id dst-port 7174
.RS 4
Show CM_IDs with destination ip port of 7174.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cm_id src-addr 172.16.0.100
.RS 4
Show CM_IDs bound to local ip address 172.16.0.100.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show cq pid 30489
.RS 4
Show CQs belonging to pid 30489.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show ctx ctxn 1
.RS 4
Show contexts that have index equal to 1.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show srq lqpn 5-7
.RS 4
Show SRQs that the QPs with lqpn 5-7 are associated with.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource show frmr_pools ats 1
.RS 4
Show FRMR pools that have ats attribute set.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource set frmr_pools dev rocep8s0f0 aging 120
.RS 4
Set the aging period for FRMR pools on device rocep8s0f0 to 120 seconds.
.RE
.PP
rdma resource set frmr_pools dev rocep8s0f0 pinned 0:1000:0:0 25000
.RS 4
Pin 25000 handles to the FRMR pool identified by key 0:1000:0:0 on device rocep8s0f0 to prevent them from being freed.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rdma (8),
.BR rdma-dev (8),
.BR rdma-link (8),
.BR rdma-statistic (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Leon Romanovsky <leonro@mellanox.com>
