.TH DEVLINK\-DEV 8 "5 Jan 2021" "iproute2" "Linux"
.SH NAME
vdpa-dev \- vdpa device configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.ad l
.in +8
.ti -8
.B vdpa
.B dev
.RI "[ " OPTIONS " ] "
.RI  " { " COMMAND | " "
.BR help " }"
.sp

.ti -8
.IR OPTIONS " := { "
\fB\-V\fR[\fIersion\fR]
}

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev show
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev help

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev add
.B name
.I NAME
.B mgmtdev
.I MGMTDEV
.RI "[ device_features " DEVICE_FEATURES " ]"
.RI "[ mac " MACADDR " ]"
.RI "[ mtu " MTU " ]"
.RI "[ max_vqp " MAX_VQ_PAIRS " ]"

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev del
.I DEV

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev config show
.RI "[ " DEV " ]"

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev vstats show
.I DEV
.B qidx
.I QUEUE_INDEX

.ti -8
.B vdpa dev set
.B name
.I NAME
.B mac
.RI "[ " MACADDR " ]"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.SS vdpa dev show - display vdpa device attributes

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the vdpa device to show.
If this argument is omitted all devices are listed.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
VDPA_DEVICE_NAME

.SS vdpa dev add - add a new vdpa device.

.TP
.BI name " NAME"
Name of the new vdpa device to add.

.TP
.BI mgmtdev " MGMTDEV"
Name of the management device to use for device addition.

.PP
.BI device_features " DEVICE_FEATURES"
Specifies the virtio device features bit-mask that is provisioned for the new vdpa device.

The bits can be found under include/uapi/linux/virtio*h.

see macros such as VIRTIO_F_ and VIRTIO_XXX(e.g NET)_F_ for specific bit values.

This is optional.

.BI mac " MACADDR"
- specifies the mac address for the new vdpa device.
This is applicable only for the network type of vdpa device. This is optional.

.BI mtu " MTU"
- specifies the mtu for the new vdpa device.
This is applicable only for the network type of vdpa device. This is optional.

.SS vdpa dev del - Delete the vdpa device.

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the vdpa device to delete.

.SS vdpa dev config show - Show configuration of specific device or all devices.

.PP
.I "DEV"
- specifies the vdpa device to show its configuration.
If this argument is omitted all devices configuration is listed.

.in +4
Format is:
.in +2
VDPA_DEVICE_NAME

.SS vdpa dev vstats show - shows vendor specific statistics for the given device and virtqueue index. The information is presented as name-value pairs where name is the name of the field and value is a numeric value for it.

.TP
.BI "DEV"
- specifies the vdpa device to query

.TP
.BI qidx " QUEUE_INDEX"
- specifies the virtqueue index to query

.SS vdpa dev set - set the configuration to the vdpa device.

.BI name " NAME"
-Name of the vdpa device to configure.

.BI mac " MACADDR"
- specifies the mac address for the vdpa device.
This is applicable only for the network type of vdpa device.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
vdpa dev show
.RS 4
Shows the all vdpa devices on the system.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev show foo
.RS 4
Shows the specified vdpa device.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev add name foo mgmtdev vdpa_sim_net
.RS 4
Add the vdpa device named foo on the management device vdpa_sim_net.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev add name foo mgmtdev vdpa_sim_net device_features 0x300020000
.RS 4
Add the vdpa device named foo on the management device vdpa_sim_net with device_features of 0x300020000
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev add name foo mgmtdev vdpa_sim_net mac 00:11:22:33:44:55
.RS 4
Add the vdpa device named foo on the management device vdpa_sim_net with mac address of 00:11:22:33:44:55.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev add name foo mgmtdev vdpa_sim_net mac 00:11:22:33:44:55 mtu 9000
.RS 4
Add the vdpa device named foo on the management device vdpa_sim_net with mac address of 00:11:22:33:44:55 and mtu of 9000 bytes.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev add name foo mgmtdev auxiliary/mlx5_core.sf.1 mac 00:11:22:33:44:55 max_vqp 8
.RS 4
Add the vdpa device named foo on the management device auxiliary/mlx5_core.sf.1 with mac address of 00:11:22:33:44:55 and max 8 virtqueue pairs
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev del foo
.RS 4
Delete the vdpa device named foo which was previously created.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev config show foo
.RS 4
Shows the vdpa device configuration of device named foo.
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev vstats show vdpa0 qidx 1
.RS 4
Shows vendor specific statistics information for vdpa device vdpa0 and virtqueue index 1
.RE
.PP
vdpa dev set name vdpa0 mac 00:11:22:33:44:55
.RS 4
Set a specific MAC address to vdpa device vdpa0
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vdpa (8),
.BR vdpa-mgmtdev (8),
.br

.SH AUTHOR
Parav Pandit <parav@nvidia.com>
